# List of inputs and outputs
## Running Household E-commerce Generation Estimation model for End-Consumer Behavior
1. Need to select models (W,O,D,WOD)Please make sure if you select models you want to run. with selection of models (W,O,D,WOD)
2. Please check "config_SF.py" in the working directory. If you change selected variables used in the model, please copy and paste "config_SF.py" to Simulation folder
3. Input file: household file in '.csv' and person file in '.csv'
4. This only needs to estimate, calibrate, validate models to simulate the E-commerce.
5. Once the models are fully estimated, you don't need to run this again for the simulation.

## Running End-Consumer Behavior model to simulate monthly delivery frequency
1. Key inputs: Synthetic population of household and person which comes from BEAM-CORE passenger model in '.csv'
2. Estimated models: models(*.sav) estimated from "HH_ecom_models.py"
3. Please check "config_SF.py" in the working directory.

## Running Distribution Channel to simulate B2B/B2C daily shipments and shipment-carrier matching
1. B2B flow inputs: annual tonnage flow between firms generated from SynthFirm
2. Firm inputs: synthetic firms, carriers, leasing firms files from SynthFirm
3. B2C inputs:  households delivery file generated from End-Consumer model


## Running Carrier Operation to simulate tour-plan for each carrier
For an example of how to run the vehicle routing problem to generate vehicle tour plans, please refer to this [Run_frism.py][https://github.com/NREL/FRISM/blob/open-source/src/Simulation/Run_frism.py] step 4 'Carrier operation module run'.
1. scenario year
2. Travel time matrix in '.csv.gz' format. Example file [here](https://github.com/NREL/FRISM/blob/open-source/Example_Data/Sim_inputs/Geo_data/tt_df_cbg.csv.gz).
3. Origin-Destination distance matrix in '.csv' format. Example file [here](https://github.com/NREL/FRISM/blob/open-source/Example_Data/Sim_inputs/Geo_data/Austin_od_dist.csv.zip).
4. Dataframe of geo locations considered in '.geojson' format. Example file [here](https://github.com/NREL/FRISM/blob/open-source/Example_Data/Sim_inputs/Geo_data/Austin_freight_centroids.geojson).
5. Carrier, payload and vehicle '.csv' files generated by the previous step. Example files [here](https://github.com/NREL/FRISM/tree/open-source/Example_Data/Sim_outputs/Shipment2Fleet/2030).
